scripts/error-codes/README.md, before:

The error code system substitutes React's invariant error messages with error IDs to provide a better debugging support in production. Check out the blog post [here](https://reactjs.org/blog/2016/07/11/introducing-reacts-error-code-system.html).

## Note for cutting a new React release
1. For each release, we run `yarn build -- --extract-errors` to update the error codes before calling `yarn build`. The build step uses `codes.json` for a production (minified) build; there should be no warning like `Error message "foo" cannot be found` for a successful release.
2. The updated `codes.json` file should be synced back to the master branch. The error decoder page in our documentation site uses `codes.json` from master; if the json file has been updated, the docs site should also be rebuilt (`rake copy_error_codes` is included in the default `rake release` task).
3. Be certain to run `yarn build -- --extract-errors` directly in the release branch (if not master) to ensure the correct error codes are generated. These error messages might be changed/removed before cutting a new release, and we don't want to add intermediate/temporary error messages to `codes.json`. However, if a PR changes an existing error message and there's a specific production test (which is rare), it's ok to update `codes.json` for that. Please use `yarn build -- --extract-errors` and don't edit the file manually.

## Structure
The error code system consists of 5 parts:
- [`codes.json`](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/master/scripts/error-codes/codes.json) contains the mapping from IDs to error messages. This file is generated by the Gulp plugin and is used by both the Babel plugin and the error decoder page in our documentation. This file is append-only, which means an existing code in the file will never be changed/removed.
- [`extract-errors.js`](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/master/scripts/error-codes/extract-errors.js) is an node script that traverses our codebase and updates `codes.json`. Use it by calling `yarn build -- --extract-errors`.
- [`replace-invariant-error-codes.js`](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/master/scripts/error-codes/replace-invariant-error-codes.js) is a Babel pass that rewrites error messages to IDs for a production (minified) build.
- [`reactProdInvariant.js`](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/master/src/shared/utils/reactProdInvariant.js) is the replacement for `invariant` in production. This file gets imported by the Babel plugin and should _not_ be used manually.
- [`ErrorDecoderComponent`](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/master/docs/_js/ErrorDecoderComponent.js) is a React component that lives at https://reactjs.org/docs/error-decoder.html. This page takes parameters like `?invariant=109&args[]=Foo` and displays a corresponding error message. Our documentation site's [`Rakefile`](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/master/docs/Rakefile#L64-L69) has a task (`bundle exec rake copy_error_codes`) for adding the latest `codes.json` to the error decoder page. This task is included in the default `bundle exec rake release` task.

Commit message:

Compile invariant directly to throw expressions (#15071)
* Transform invariant to custom error type

This transforms calls to the invariant module:

```js
invariant(condition, 'A %s message that contains %s', adj, noun);
```

Into throw statements:

```js
if (!condition) {
  if (__DEV__) {
    throw ReactError(`A ${adj} message that contains ${noun}`);
  } else {
    throw ReactErrorProd(ERR_CODE, adj, noun);
  }
}
```

The only thing ReactError does is return an error whose name is set
to "Invariant Violation" to match the existing behavior.

ReactErrorProd is a special version used in production that throws
a minified error code, with a link to see to expanded form. This
replaces the reactProdInvariant module.

As a next step, I would like to replace our use of the invariant module
for user facing errors by transforming normal Error constructors to
ReactError and ReactErrorProd. (We can continue using invariant for
internal React errors that are meant to be unreachable, which was the
original purpose of invariant.)

* Use numbers instead of strings for error codes

* Use arguments instead of an array

I wasn't sure about this part so I asked Sebastian, and his rationale
was that using arguments will make ReactErrorProd slightly slower, but
using an array will likely make all the functions that throw slightly
slower to compile, so it's hard to say which way is better. But since
ReactErrorProd is in an error path, and fewer bytes is generally better,
no array is good.

* Casing nit

scripts/error-codes/README.md, after:

The error code system substitutes React's error messages with error IDs to
provide a better debugging support in production. Check out the blog post
[here](https://reactjs.org/blog/2016/07/11/introducing-reacts-error-code-system.html).

- [`codes.json`](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/master/scripts/error-codes/codes.json)
  contains the mapping from IDs to error messages. This file is generated by the
  Gulp plugin and is used by both the Babel plugin and the error decoder page in
  our documentation. This file is append-only, which means an existing code in
  the file will never be changed/removed.
- [`extract-errors.js`](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/master/scripts/error-codes/extract-errors.js)
  is an node script that traverses our codebase and updates `codes.json`. You
  can test it by running `yarn build -- --extract-errors`, but you should only
  commit changes to this file when running a release. (The release tool will
  perform this step automatically.)
- [`minify-error-codes`](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/master/scripts/error-codes/minify-error-codes)
  is a Babel pass that rewrites error messages to IDs for a production
  (minified) build.
