packages/react-devtools-extensions/README.md, before:

This is the source code for the React DevTools browser extension.

## Installation

The easiest way to install this extension is as a browser add-on:
* [Chrome web store](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en)
* [Firefox Add-ons](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/react-devtools/)

## Development

You can also build and install this extension from source.

DevTools embeds local versions of several NPM packages also in this workspace. If you have not already built them, you'll need to do that before getting started by running the following command in the root directory of this repository:
```sh
yarn build -- react,react-dom,react-is,scheduler --type=NODE
```

Once the above packages have been built, you can build the extension by running:
```sh
cd packages/react-devtools-extensions/

yarn build:chrome # => packages/react-devtools-extensions/chrome/build
yarn run test:chrome # Test Chrome extension

yarn build:firefox # => packages/react-devtools-extensions/firefox/build
yarn run test:firefox # Test Firefox extension
```

Commit message:

DevTools build script enhancements (#17653)
* Updated DevTools local development instructions to mention experimental build step

* Added a command to download latest experimental release (for DevTools)

* Updated build instructions for clarity

* Added build-for-devtools package alias

packages/react-devtools-extensions/README.md, after:

This is the source code for the React DevTools browser extension.

## Installation

The easiest way to install this extension is as a browser add-on:
* [Chrome web store](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en)
* [Firefox Add-ons](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/react-devtools/)

## Local development
You can also build and install this extension from source.

### Prerequisite steps
DevTools depends on local versions of several NPM packages<sup>1</sup> also in this workspace. You'll need to either build or download those packages first.

<sup>1</sup> Note that at this time, an _experimental_ build is required because DevTools depends on the `createRoot` API.

#### Build from source
To build dependencies from source, run the following command from the root of the repository:
```sh
yarn build-for-devtools
```
#### Download from CI
To use the latest build from CI, run the following command from the root of the repository:
```sh
./scripts/release/download-experimental-build.js
```
### Build steps
Once the above packages have been built or downloaded, you can build the extension by running:
```sh
cd packages/react-devtools-extensions/

yarn build:chrome # => packages/react-devtools-extensions/chrome/build
yarn run test:chrome # Test Chrome extension

yarn build:firefox # => packages/react-devtools-extensions/firefox/build
yarn run test:firefox # Test Firefox extension
```
