fixtures/attribute-behavior/README.md, before:

# Attribute Behavior Fixture

**WIP:** This is an MVP, still needs polish.

### Known Issues
- There are currently two errors thrown when the page loads;
  `SyntaxError: missing ; before statement`

## Instructions

`cd fixtures/attribute-behavior && yarn install && yarn start`

## Interpretation

Each row is an attribute which could be set on some DOM component. Some of
them are invalid or mis-capitalized or mixed up versions of real ones.
Each column is a value which can be passed to that attribute.
Every cell has a box on the left and a box on the right.
The left box shows the property (or attribute) assigned by React 15.\*, and the
right box shows the property (or attribute) assigned by the latest version of
React 16.

Right now, we use a purple outline to call out cases where the assigned property
(or attribute) has changed between React 15 and 16.

---


This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

You can find the guide for how to do things in a CRA [here](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/blob/main/packages/cra-template/template/README.md).

Commit message:

Update attribute-behavior fixture (#22522)
* Fix missing key warning

* Add build instructions

* Update interpretation now that React 17 is latest stable and 18 is next

* Ignore ReactDOM.render deprecation warning

* Ensure a server implementation with `renderToString` is used

* Update AttributeTableSnapshot

* Ensure Popover doesn't overflow

fixtures/attribute-behavior/README.md, after:

# Attribute Behavior Fixture

**WIP:** This is an MVP, still needs polish.

### Known Issues
- There are currently two errors thrown when the page loads;
  `SyntaxError: missing ; before statement`

## Instructions

`yarn build --type=UMD_DEV react/index,react-dom && cd fixtures/attribute-behavior && yarn install && yarn start`

## Interpretation

Each row is an attribute which could be set on some DOM component. Some of
them are invalid or mis-capitalized or mixed up versions of real ones.
Each column is a value which can be passed to that attribute.
Every cell has a box on the left and a box on the right.
The left box shows the property (or attribute) assigned by the latest stable release of React, and the
right box shows the property (or attribute) assigned by the locally built version of React.

Right now, we use a purple outline to call out cases where the assigned property
(or attribute) has changed between React 15 and 16.

---


This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

You can find the guide for how to do things in a CRA [here](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/blob/main/packages/cra-template/template/README.md).
